# What is **AttenDeft**?

*_Attendeft_* is a powerful attendance management Project cooked primarily to _counter the frustration of school teachers in handling the attendance in online classes._ This is a candid attempt towards making online teaching a cakewalk. With AttenDeft in your E-Teaching kitty, online classes will surely start becoming better!
***
## Python Modules Used:
|Task|Module(s) used|
|-------|------------|
|Handling Excel and CSV files|csv, xlsxwriter, openpyxl|
|GUI|tkinter|
|Date related tasks|calendar, datetime|
|Others|os, pickle, subprocess, platform, shutil|

Additionally, HTML and CSS are also used for Showing a reference(from within the app).
***
## Some basic features of this Project:<br>

* **Attendance recording:**
This requires you to upload the csv file generated by your [Google Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/google-meet-attendance-li/appcnhiefcidclcdjeahgklghghihfok?hl=en-GB "Google Meet Attendance List"), select your class and lo!  10 minutes of task done, just with the blink of an eye! The interesting fact is that students who make brief entries to get attendance will be marked absent by a checking method. 

* **Create a new class:**
This is the first step towards getting started with Attendeft. Provide your class name and session in years to create an excel workbook. Everyday attendance will be recorded in this workbook in a well crafted manner.

* **Analyse your Class attendance:**
What's the joy of food without any smell! In this part, simply select your class and you are provided with, attendance details of all the students within that class in an intricate manner. Smart color highlighting has been employed to add spices to the dish. You can also save a csv format of the record as well.

* **More:**
Users can easily change some basic settings in this section as per their needs. Come to this section if you want to have a view of your class file or want to save a copy in your desired location.

* **Manage TC/Admissions:**
For students taking transfer, their name has to be deleted from the next month. For the ongoing and previous months, `(TC)` should be added with their names. Also the formula cells should be suitably deleted.
For new admissions, add the student at the suitable row according to roll, and formulas should be suitably copied to adjust the changes. This task need not be done for previous months.
In all, you must adhere to the **permissible ways of editing.**_(Defined within the app)_
